Create a New VPC: my-security-vpc
Create a New IGW: my-security-igw
Attach the IGW to VPC

Create 4 Subnets ( 2 public and 2 private ) i.e., 1public + 1private in same AZ,  1public + 1private in same AZ

Create the 1st subnet, make sure it's in the newly created VPC
Name : Public1A
AZ : us-east-1a
CIDR Range : 10.0.1.0/24

Create the 2nd subnet, make sure it's in the newly created VPC
Name : Public2B
AZ : us-east-1b
CIDR Range : 10.0.2.0/24

Create the 3rd subnet, make sure it's in the newly created VPC
Name : Private3A
AZ : us-east-1a
CIDR Range : 10.0.3.0/24

Create the 4th subnet, make sure it's in the newly created VPC
Name : Private4B
AZ : us-east-1b
CIDR Range : 10.0.4.0/24

Click on Create Subnet button

Verify the NACL and understand it

Create 2 RT in total
Create 1st RT with the name : Security-PublicRT by choosing the right VPC
Click on Routes, add it to the IGW so we won't forget later.
Associate the Subnets as well, make sure to associate only Public2B and Public1A subnets

Create 2nd RT with the name : Security-PrivateRT by choosing the right VPC
Click on Routes and verify whether it's local
Associate the subnets as well, make sure to associate only Private3A and Private4B subnets

Now our VPC setup is done.

Go to EC2 SECTION:
Launch 1st ec2 instance by choosing correct vpc and subnet "Private3A"
Create a new SG "Private-EC2" by allowing SSH & HTTP from everywhere.
Create a New Key Pair with the name "security" and download it by choosing RSA option
Name of the instance : Private3AInstance

Launch 2nd ec2 instance by choosing correct vpc and subnet "Private4B"
Choose the security group which was created earlier "Private-EC2"
Choose the existing key pair "security" and launch the instances.
Name of the instance : Private4BInstance

Please analyze both the instances that they don't have public ip to connect through. EC2-instance connect will also not work.

Hence we are introducing a concept called "Bastion Host"

Launch 3rd ec2 instance by choosing correct vpc and subnet "Public1A" and Enable Auto-Assign Public IP
Tag : Name - Bastion Host
Create a new SG : Bastion-SG and allow only SSH from anywhere
Choose the existing key pair "security" and launch the instances.

Now login to bastion host ec2 machine using ec2 instance connect.
You need to create a same key pair file name called "security.pem" in the home folder 
nano security.pem
make sure run this command "chmod 400 security.pem"
Copy the security.pem file which you have already downloaded from your windows laptop to bastion host machine and then save it.

Now try to access the private instance ips using the command " ssh ec2-user@privatipoftheinstance -i security.pem
It should connect to the private instances using bastion host.



